All right, hello.
Is everybody ready?
No?
Yes?
>> Yes.
>> I want more.
Come on a little bit more.
>> [APPLAUSE].
>> There we go, all right?
We're excited.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> [LAUGH] Everyone,
we're gonna do a Linus chat now.
I actually heard a really
great quote before all this,
which is Git was only invented so
that the rest of us could be nearly as
smart as Linus because he is that good.
He could hold all of Linux in
his head with revisions well,
as the rest of us are just mere mortal.
So, but for this grand course,
I did want to be a bit more professional.
So we're gonna undone the black
hoodie [SOUND] and put on.
Regular normal close.
All right, so
I just think that's fantastic.
So all right, so who am I for
those that don't know?
I'm Stream on Twitch.
I make YouTube videos, I do handcrafted
artisanal memes every now and
then on Twitter.
I don't have a link there.
I made this logo with ChatGPT,
it got so close.
It's just so close yet
it's just so far away.
Also those ones as well are from ChatGPT,
so pretty fantastic.
So the goal here is to teach you Git well.
It's not gonna go over
every single command.
I don't know if you've ever
played around with the man docs,
but there's about 147 different
commands you can put into Git.
We'll go over 13 of them.
We're gonna get pretty far into it,
but the last 1% of knowing
Git is extremely difficult.
You don't ever have to know it.
I've literally not touched
most things in Git.
There's just enough to make you good,
and that's what we want to be,
is we want to be pretty dang good and
understand why they exist.
All right, so before we git,
by the way, you should man.
If you don't know what man is,
man is the manual pages for
any kind of a Unix system.
So if you just jump in your terminal and
type man man,
you will see a bunch of
manual pages appear.
It's really important to be good at these.
You don't even have to be great at them.
Just good.
Because everything you need to
know about Git is for free and
on your system at all times.
You don't You don't
even need the internet.
If you're on an airplane,
you can just man, get whatever command and
you'll read the manual page for it.
So it's always fantastic to have
the manual in the back pocket and
just know how it works.
So if everyone can open up the manual for
a quick second and check it out,
by the way, if you ever want to, you can
always do a man, get-, press some tabs.
And if you're.
If you're on zsh, you'll see that it has,
like I said, literally 147 possibilities.
They're quite fantastic.
So if you have man open,
you've never used man before.
j goes down a line, k goes up a line,
d goes down a half page,
u goes up half page, / or forward/
any word will search for something.
n goes to the next search
term after you press Enter,
capital N goes to the previous
search term after you press Enter.
So now that you see this,
you probably think okay,
maybe vim shortcuts aren't
like all that crazy.
Maybe this has some precedent.
You're probably right.
No one knows where f came from, but
the rest of it probably makes sense.
All right, so quick exercise.
In man pages, you see bold terms, I want
someone to find what is a bold term?
What is its definition?
Use the man pages, use man man to find
out why a man page has bold terms.
So you can search, you can peruse.
>> /bold.
First result bold text,
type exactly as shown.
>> Correct, all right, so
there's a bunch of different ways you've
gotta read commands out of the man page.
You'll see specified with italics,
with brackets,
with ..., ellipses, all that stuff.
And so when you look at a man page,
everything has a meaning.
And so this is just your intro.
If you If you forget how a man page works,
use man man.
You can go over it.
You can look at it.
It's always in your back pocket.
Fantastic to have.
And so there you go.
Bold text literally means to
type exactly as it's shown.
So if you look at the man page, you'll see
something like man-k and that shows up in
all bold, and then you'll see the rest
of it telling you how to use it.
So that's how you use a man page.
Fantastic.